Learning Curve Analysis with Swarm
=========================================

This workflow creates swarm files that can be directly run on a system with Swarm to produce Learning Curve Analysis results that are standardized and compatible with IMPROVE LCA postprocessing scripts.

Requirements
----------------

* :doc:`IMPROVE general environment <INSTALLATION>`
* `Swarm <https://hpc.nih.gov/apps/swarm.html>`_
* An IMPROVE-compliant model and its environment

Installation and Setup
-------------------------

Create the IMPROVE general environment:

.. code-block:: bash

    conda create -n IMPROVE python=3.6
    conda activate IMPROVE
    pip install improvelib


Install the model of choice, IMPROVE, and benchmark datasets:

.. code-block:: bash

    cd <WORKING_DIR>
    git clone https://github.com/JDACS4C-IMPROVE/<MODEL>
    cd <MODEL>
    source setup_improve.sh


Create a Conda environment path in the model directory:

.. code-block:: bash

    conda env create -f <MODEL_ENV>.yml -p ./<MODEL_ENV_NAME>/

Parameter Configuration
----------------------------

This workflow uses IMPROVE parameter handling. You should create a config file following the template of `lca_swarm_params.ini` with the parameters appropriate for your experiment. Parameters may also be specified on the command line.

* :code:`input_dir`: Path to benchmark data. If using a DRP model with standard setup, this should be :code:`./csa_data/raw_data`
* :code:`lca_splits_dir`: Path to LCA splits, as generated by the LCA splits generator.
* :code:`output_dir`: Path to save the LCA results. Note that the swarm files are not written here, they are written to :code:`output_swarmfile_dir`.
* :code:`output_swarmfile_dir`: Path to save the swarm files (default: './').
* :code:`model_name`: Name of the model as used in scripts (i.e. :code:`<model_name>_preprocess_improve.py`). Note that this is case-sensitive.
* :code:`model_scripts_dir`: Path to the model repository as cloned above. Can be an absolute or relative path.
* :code:`model_environment`: Name of the model environment as created above. Can be a path, or just the name of environment directory if it is located in `model_scripts_dir`.
* :code:`dataset`: Name of the dataset as used in the split names. Note that this is case-sensitive.
* :code:`split_nums`: List of strings of the numbers of splits.
* :code:`swarm_file_prefix`: Prefix for swarm files. If none is specfied, they will be prefixed with '<model_name>_<dataset>_'.
* :code:`y_col_name`: Name of column to use in y data (default: auc).
* :code:`cuda_name`: Name of cuda device (e.g. 'cuda:0'). If None is specified, model default parameters will be used (default: None).
* :code:`epochs`: Number of epochs to train for. If None is specified, model default parameters will be used (default: None).
* :code:`input_supp_data_dir`: Supp data dir, if required. If None is specified, model default parameters will be used (default: None).


Usage
----------

Activate the IMPROVE environment:

.. code-block:: bash

    conda activate IMPROVE


Create the swarm files with your configuration files:

.. code-block:: bash

    python lca_swarm.py --config <yourconfig.ini>


Run the swarm files (example usage for Biowulf):

.. code-block:: bash

    swarm --merge-output -g 30 --time-per-command 00:10:00 -J model_preprocess preprocess.swarm


.. code-block:: bash
    
    swarm --merge-output --partition=gpu --gres=gpu:k80:1 -g 60 --time-per-command 06:00:00 -J model_train train.swarm


.. code-block:: bash

    swarm --merge-output --partition=gpu --gres=gpu:k80:1 -g 60 --time-per-command 00:30:00 -J model_train infer.swarm


You may need to change the memory (:code:`-g`) and time (:code:`--time-per-command`) allocations for your model. The :code:`-J` flag labels the standard out and may be omitted. It may be useful to add job dependencies for train and infer with :code:`--dependency afterany:<JOBID>`. See Biowulf documentation for Swarm `here <https://hpc.nih.gov/apps/swarm.html>`_.

Output
--------


The output will be in the specified `output_dir` with the following structure (with the used source and target names and splits):

.. code-block:: bash

    output_dir/
    ├── infer
    │   ├── split_0
    │   │   ├── sz_[0]
    │   │   │   ├── param_log_file.txt
    │   │   │   ├── test_scores.json
    │   │   │   └── test_y_data_predicted.csv
    │   │   ├── sz_[1]
    │   │   ├── ...
    │   │   └── sz_[n]
    │   ├── split_1
    │   ├── ...
    │   └── split_9
    ├── ml_data
    │   ├── split_0
    │   │   ├── sz_[0]
    │   │   │   ├── param_log_file.txt
    │   │   │   ├── train_y_data.csv
    │   │   │   ├── val_y_data.csv
    │   │   │   ├── test_y_data.csv
    │   │   │   └── train/val/test x_data, and other files per model
    │   │   ├── sz_[1]
    │   │   ├── ...
    │   │   └── sz_[n]
    │   ├── split_1
    │   ├── ...
    │   └── split_9
    └── models
        ├── split_0
        │   ├── sz_[0]
        │   │   ├── param_log_file.txt
        │   │   ├── val_scores.json
        │   │   ├── val_y_data_predicted.csv
        │   │   └── trained model file
        │   ├── sz_[1]
        │   ├── ...
        │   └── sz_[n]
        ├── split_1
        ├── ...
        └── split_9


We recommend using the postprocessing script for LCA to aggregate the results. See here.












